# Columbia-Bootcamp-Homeworks
# A Case Study of Brazil’s Government Owned Instant Payments System- PIX
## Overview and Origin
* The name of the system in this case study is PIX. PIX is an instant payments system that is designed and owned by the Central Bank of Brazil. Although the system had its launch in November 2020, the Central Bank had been preparing market participants for its release for a long time. Central Bank of Brazil is the monetary policy authority of the Brazilian government. The Central Bank is responsible for the money supply in the economy and keeping inflation at targeted levels while also being responsible for clearing payments through its systems. 
* The Central Bank launched PIX, the instant payments system, due to the need in the financial markets for low-cost, efficient, transparent and fast money transfer system.
Brazil's banking sector is highly concentrated among a handful of large banks with limited reach to the population working in the informal economy.  The idea for PIX came from governments desire to be able to regulate new payment arrangements as a result of the electronization of commerce. The Central Bank wants to encourage other instant payment systems to join the Brazilian fintech market and increase the competition in the markets. Therefore, in order to lead the markets, the Central Bank took the initiative to launch the first official government-owned fintech system in Brazil. The Central Bank governor gave numerous talks and made numerous announcements on this initiative to market participants across the globe, most recently he gave a speech about the fintech industry’s evolving nature in Brazil to the U.S. Brazilian Chamber of Commerce.
## Business Activities:
* The specific financial problem that this instant payments project aims to solve is the lack of transperancy in the payments market in Brazil, where informal employment is a key concern of the government. By introducing this regulated system, the government will be able to keep better track of payments and open the market for regulated and approved instant payment systems where they will act as regulated mechanisms for money transfer. Through this aim, the Central Bank will have a better control and rule over the money supply in the economy and will be able to incorporate transactions under informal employment into its analysis by gaining more detailed knowledge on it.
* PIX's intended customers are anyone in the Brazilian markets regardless of employment status or gender. The market size is extremely large due to the fact that the system aims to be used by almost every person of age in Brazil who are capable of using this technology. The Central Bank aimed this technology to be very user-friendly to be able to reach older populations. It is expected that relatively younger portion of the population will be more easily incorporated into the system while for older populations, it may take more time and education.
* At this point, there cannot be any other competitors of this size for PIX, since the unfair advantage that this system has is that it is backed by the government authority behind it. However, PIX is not meant to be a large competitor in the economy. In fact, by design, as mentioned earlier, is that it will open the market for other participants through government leadership. Through this program, the governmnet does not intend to crowd out the market by eliminating market competition. Instead, the Central Bank aims to lead the way into a fintech market with this initiative. However, the govenrment, by employing this technology is improving its competition standing with regards to other Central Banks and governments through showing its adaptability.
* PIX is a Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system in which transactions are settled as soon as they are processed, on a one-to-one basis. Once settled, transactions are final and irrevocable. In order to make sure that the instant payments scheme is working correctly, the system was tested through a "homologation cycle", which required all participants to test the operationality of the platforms such as the Instant Payments System itself and the Transaction Accounts Identifier Directory as well as the final customer experience.
## Landscape:
* The domain that the PIX system is in is isntant payments but it can also be considered as a regulatory fintech domain since PIX is owned and operated by the Central Bank of Brazil, the regulatory branch of the Brazilian government on monetary policy. The landscape is very limited in Brazil due to the new emergence of this domain.
* This domain is constantly evolving with Facebook payments, Wechat in china. The innovation of an instant payments system started with Paypal more than a decade ago but due to various regulations around the world, there are new instant payments systems in different regions. While Wechat is the most common one in China, Whatsapp pay and venmo are population in other parts of the world. The major trends in this domain are no-fee transfers for senders. While a traditional transfer system is marked by high fees, these fintech programs offer free-of-charge transfers. In fact, catching on these trends, banks also started implementing their programs, such as Zelle from Bank of America. 
## Results
* It is hard to assess the business impact of this program since its soft launch was very recent, less than 6 months ago. However, due to the publicity around the system, the government has definitely been able to demonstrate its ability to welcome fintechs into its economy, mainly by opening up the space by itself initially through this system. It is expected that as the payments system stays in the economy for longer, there will be more participants and more measurable impact for us to evaluate.
* The core metrics that companies in this domain use to measure success is the total amount of transfers made through the platform, number of senders and receivers in the platform, the pace of new comers into the platform and the average time it takes to transfer funds through the platform. So far, due to the fact that this is a government owned system and it just recently had its first launch, it is hard t o gain access to these metrics. However, it would not be wrong to say that the expectancy for PIX to have significant performance in these metrics are less than what it would be for a private company since PIX is backed up by the Central Bank, the sole regulatory arm of the government on monetary policy. Also it is important to remember that PIX's main goal is to create the market rather than becoming the top competitive player in the market. If in the next few months, other instant payment systems enter the markets, it will be through the positive impact of PIX.

## Recommendations

* If I were to advise this platform, I would focus on making sure that the system is as user-friendlly as possible. For the system to reach its intended population, it needs to be user-friendly so that it can be used by all groups of the population. Although Brazil's demographics are relatively young, there is still a considerable amount of old people in the economy who will need assistance to be incorporated into the system. Therefore, I would suggest a sub-product in which local banks use in-person appointments to download the application on their customers phones that allows the local banks to set up the application and account information on their phones through a secure connection. This would allow older populations to skip the set up steps and directly move to the use process.
* This "skip ahead" product would benefit the program because it would allow older populations who are not as computer savy to be able to use the program by having in person appointments for setting up the application and linked accounts through bank personalle.
* The additional technology that the service utilizes would be having a secure connection in the application where instead of the account holder herself/himself, the bank personelle will be able to fill out some mandatory questions for the account holder. 
* It is important for this technology to be under high security so that no manipulations can be made to the account holders account.

Sources:
https://www.bcb.gov.br/en/pressdetail/2334/nota
https://www.bcb.gov.br/estabilidadefinanceira/forumpagamentosinstantaneos
https://www.bcb.gov.br/en/financialstability/spi_en
https://business.ebanx.com/en/resources/payments-explained/pix-instant-payment-system
